The best way to understand how emotion AI works is by example.
Would you like to see a live demo?
Sure. Why not?
Everyone wants their computers to understand them better.
All right, so here's the demo.
Basically, what's happening here is that the algorithm is
looking for faces and it's detecting your face by,
you know, drawing this bounding box around your different facial features.
And then it's tracking the movement of your facial features,
like your eyebrows, your mouth,
your nose over time.
That's what these dots are for?
Exactly, and it's mapping it into a probability score for each emotion.
So let's give this a try.
For instance, yeah, let's try smiling.
Smile.
We can see that the probability score of the joy classifier goes up.
Let's try sadness.
It's also mapping your most dominant emotion into an emoji,
so you can experiment with, you know,
eliciting a bunch of different emojis.
Yeah, that's interesting.
It also detects the presence of glasses and gender.
So it's identified us both as female.
And looks quite a lot like me too.
Well, I'm excited for our students to try out this technology.